recommendationsforredditusers
avidehtaalimaneshandmohammadaleagha
stanforduniversity december    



abstract



inthispaperweattempttodevelopan
algorithmtogenerateasetofpost
recommendationsforusersofthesocial
newswebsiteredditgiventheirprior
votinghistory weattemptedthree
variationsofkmeansclustering wefirst
attemptedtoclusteruserssimplybasedon
theirvotingrecordandthenattemptedto
clusterusersbasedonattributesofthe
poststheyhadvotedpositivelyon bothof
theseapproachesproducedverylarge
recommendationsetswithpoorto
moderaterecall finallyweattemptedto
clusterpostsbasedonkeywords
appearinginthetitleandobservedmuch
higherrecallbutlowerprecisionasthe
recommendationsetsthatwereproduced
weregenerallymuchlarger inallthree
caseswefoundthattheinputdatawas
sparseandquitelargeandwouldrequirea
significantamountofpruningifthese
algorithmsweretobeusedinapractical
setting wealsofoundthatthesetsof
recommendationsthatweregenerated
wereoftenverylargeandthatsome
heuristicswouldneedtobeappliedto
reducetheirsizewhileattemptingto
preservethequalityofthe
recommendations 


 

introduction

   

backgroundandmotivation





redditisasocialnewswebsitewhere
userscansubmitcontentandhaveother
userscommentandvote upordown on
theirsubmissions since     reddithas
grownintoahugecommunityofvery
activeusers inthemonthofoctober
      alone redditsaw          
uniqueuserswhoviewed             

pages  withsomanypages discovering
newandinterestingcontentcanbevery
challenging onewaythewebsitehasbeen
abletorecommendcontenttoitsusersis
bylettingthemsubscribetosubreddits a
subredditisessentiallyacommunity
focusedonaspecifictopicsuchasscience
ormusic recommendationsarethen
madebasedonthetopvotedpostswithin
thesubredditsauserissubscribedto 
despitethis usersstilloftenfinditdifficult
tofindcontenttheyaretrulyinterestedin 
in     redditgaveitsuserstheoptionto
maketheirvotespubliclyavailableand
laterreleasedsomeofthatvotingdatafor
researchpurposes  weproposetouse
thisdatatogeneraterecommendationsfor
usersbasedontheirvotinghistory 



   



datapreparation

theformatofthepubliclyavailabledatais
simple eachentryconsistsofauserid a
postidandanupordownvote   or   
wewereabletoobtainatotalof         
votesconsistingof      distinctusers
votingon         distinctposts in
additiontothisvotingdata reddithasa
publicapi whichallowsustomakea
requestforaparticularpostidandobtain
certainmetadataaboutthepostasajson
string thismetadataincludesamong
otherthingsthepostsoriginatingdomain 
thesubredditthepostbelongstoaswell
asthetitleofthepost forthepurposesof
thisresearchprojectandtomake
operatingonthedatafeasiblewiththe
 http   www reddit com about
 
http   www reddit com r announcements comme
nts ddz s reddit wants your 
permission to use your data for  
http   www reddit com r redditdev comments bu
bhl csv dump of reddit voting data 
 https   github com reddit reddit wiki api

ficomputationalresourcesavailabletous 
welimitedoureffortstoasetof     
users votingon       distinctposts 
wewroteaseriesofscriptsinjavato
parsethevotingdata makerequeststo
redditsserversformetadataandtobuild
theinputdata designmatrices forour
learningalgorithms 

overviewofapproaches
   


wewillattempttotacklethisproblem
usingafewvariationsofkmeans
clustering ourfirstattemptwillbeto
clusteruserssimplybasedonposts
theyvevotedoninthepast theintuition
behindthisapproachisthatuserswho
votesimilarlyonthesamesetofpostswill
likelysharesimilarinterests wecan
leveragethisfacttogenerate
recommendationsbasedonpostsup
votedbysimilarusers oursecondattempt
willagainbetoclusterusers butthistime
basedoncertainattributesoftheposts
theyvevotedon namelyoriginating
domainandthesubredditthepostbelongs
to thiswillgiveusaslightlycoarserview
ofauser sinterestscomparedtothefirst
approachbutwillrequireamuchsmaller
featurevectorthatwillnotgrowevery
timeanewpostissubmittedandwillnot
beassparse asbefore wecanusethe
clustereduserstogenerateasetof
recommendations thefinalapproachwill
betoclusterpostsratherthanusersbased
onkeywordsappearinginthetitleofthe
post thecontentofapostcanbeanything
fromanewsarticletoavideoorevenan
imagebutallpostsinvariablyhaveatitle 
whatsmore redditactivelyencourages
itsuserstogivemeaningfuldescriptive
titlestotheirposts  oncepostsare
clusteredbasedonkeywords wecan
identifythoseclusterswhichcontainposts
 wedecidedonlimitingourdatasetto    users
afterouripwasblockedbyredditformakingtoo
manyrequestsinashorttimeperiod thereddit
teamwaskindenoughtounblockusoncewe
promisedtoslowdownourrequests 
 http   www reddit com help faq

upvotedbyauserandusethesetofposts
fromthoseclusterstogenerate
recommendations 


 



methodology

   
approach  clusteringusers
basedonvotes



thefeaturevectorinthisapproach
consistedofallposts andthevalueseach
featurecouldtakeonwere   or  
 downvote novoteandupvote
respectively  werankmeanson   of
thedata    users withksetto      
  and    onceclusteringwasachieved
wethen foreachoftheremainingusersui 
didthefollowingtogenerate
recommendations 
i wewithheld   ofupvotesfrom
userui
ii withtheremainingvotesforui we
foundthesetuiofusersinthesame
clusterasuiandconstructedthesetpiof
allpostsupvotedbytheusersinui 
iii wethenfilteredthesetpitoremove
postsuihadalreadyvotedontoobtaina
setofrecommendedpostsri inpractice 
wecouldalsothenrankthepostsinriby
popularity mostupvotes andthenonly
showtheuserthetoptposts  
iv wethentestedour
recommendationsusingthe   of
withheldupvotesandassignedascoresi
whichis  ofwithheldupvotesforuithat
appearinri    ofwithheldupvotesfor
ui  

   
approach  clusteringusers
basedonattributesofpostsupvoted


thefeaturevectorinthisapproach
consistedoftheoriginatingdomainofthe
posts aswellasthesubredditsthey
 hereweleftoutpostshavingonlyonevoteasthey

providednovaluableinformation andwereleft
with      posts 
       postswereconsidered thesewerethe
postsupvotedbytheconsideredusers  with

fibelongedto thevalueseachfeaturecould
takeonwerethesumofupvotesbyauser
forpostshavingthoseattributes for
example 

domains

subreddits

youtube imgur music funnypics
u 
u 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 


asbefore werankmeanson   ofthe
data    users withksetto        
and    onceclusteringwasachievedwe
thenrepeatedthesteps i to iv from   
toobtainasetofrecommendationsriand
ascoresiforeachuserui 

   
approach  clusteringposts
basedonkeywordsinthetitle

forthisapproach ratherthanclustering
users weclusteredtheposts themselves
basedonkeywordsfoundinthetitleofthe
posts togeneratethedictionaryofwords 
weranportersstemmingalgorithm   on
thesetofwordspresentinthetitlesofthe
posts tofurthertrimdownthedictionary 
weremovedasetofstandardstopwords
suchastheandof    wethen
generatedthefeaturevectorsforeachpost
fromthisdictionary wherethevalueofa
featurewasthepresence  or  ofthe
givenwordinthetitleofthatpost we
thenrankmeansonallpostswith
differentvaluesfork onceclusteringwas
achievedwethen foreachofasmallsetof
usersui     didthefollowingtogenerate
recommendations 
i wewithheld   ofupvotesfrom
userui
ii withtheremainingvotes wefound
whichclusterstheremainingupvoted
postsfromuibelongedto fromthese
      differentdomainsand     different
subreddits
      postswereconsidered theseweretheposts
upvotedbytheconsideredusers 
 weendedupwithadictionaryof     words

clusterski jweconstructedthesetpiofall
postsbelongingtoki j 
iii wethenfilteredthesetpitoremove
postsuihadalreadyvotedontoobtaina
setofrecommendedpostsri 
iv wethentestedour
recommendationsusingthe   of
withheldupvotesandassignedascoresi
whichwas  ofwithheldupvotesforui
thatappearinri    ofwithheldupvotes
forui  


 



resultsandanalysis

   initialobservations



upongeneratingthedesignmatrixforour
firstalgorithm itquicklybecameobvious
thatthedatawasextremelysparse ofall
thepostsbeingconsidered agivenuser
hadseenandvotedonafractionof  of
them thisisnotunexpectedgiventhe
hugenumberofnewpoststhatare
submittedtoredditonadailybasis in
addition thedimensionsofthisdesign
matrix     x       werequitelarge
 andwouldbeexpectedtogrowmuch
largerastimegoeson sincethefeature
vectorwasmadeupofthevoteforevery
postunderconsideration 

thedesignmatrixforthesecond
algorithmwasslightlylesssparseasthere
wassubstantialoverlapofdomainsand
subredditsbetweenposts thedimensions
ofthismatrix     x        whilealso
quitelarge weremoremanageableand
wouldnotbeexpectedtogrowindefinitely
asthenumberofdomainsandsubreddits
willremainrelativelyconstantovertime 

thedesignmatrixforthethirdalgorithm
wouldhavegrowntobeextremelylarge
hadwecontinuedtoconsiderallposts
votedonby    users notduetothesize
ofthefeaturevector thedictionarywould
havehad      words butsimplydueto
thenumberofpoststobeclustered
       posts  weoptedtoperformthis

ficlusteringforonly  users resultingin
     postsandadictionaryof     
words  thiswasstillrather
computationallyexpensiveand
anecdotallytookverylongtorun 

   results



avg si
avg  ri 
rratio 
qscore  

k   
      
      
      
      

k   
      
      
      
      

k    k    
             
             
             
             

thescoresiandthesizeofthe
recommendationsetrelativetothe
numberofpostsconsideredwhichwell
calltherratio wewanttomaximizethe
averagesiwhileminimizingthesizeofthe
recommendationsetssowellcompute
anotherscoreqwhichwelldefineasavg 
si avg rratio 


table  resultsforapproach 




avg si
avg  ri 
rratio 
qscore  

k   

k   

k   

             
            
             
             

      
     
      
      

k 
   
      
     
      
      

table  resultsforapproach 




avg si
avg  ri 
rratio 
qscore  

k   

k   

k   

             
           
             
             

      
     
      
      

table  resultsforapproach 

 avg ri   allposts 
  avgsi rratio


k 
   
      
     
      
      

   analysis

onekeyfactthatmustbekeptinmindis
thatthedataavailabletousisinnoway
completeinthesensethatausers
preferenceisonlyknownforaverysmall
numberofposts thereforethescores
weveassignedtothevarious
recommendationsetswevegeneratedwill
giveusanintuitionabouttheapproach
takenbutdonotentirelyreflectthequality
oftherecommendationset hadauser
happenedtohaveseenmoreposts they
mayhaveupvotedthosepresentamong
therecommendations  

thetwometricsofinterestwhen
evaluatingtheapproacheswevetakenare



figure 



wecanseefromtheresultsthatthe
approachwhichhadthehighestqscore
wasthe rdapproachwhich althoughit
generatedfairlylargerecommendation
sets showedamuchhigherrecallwiththe
highestaveragesiscores the ndapproach
didtheworstoutofthethreeapproaches
withbothlargerecommendationsetsas
wellaslowaveragesi the stapproach
simplydidnothaveenoughdatato
adequatelyclusterusersandwhatwe
observedwasusuallytheformationofone
verylargeclustercontainingmostofthe
userswiththerestoftheclusters
containingaverysmallnumberofusers 
thisresultedindecentsiscoresforthe
usersinthelargecluster ifmostother
usersareinthesameclusterasyou 
chancesareoneofthemwillhaveup
votedanarticleyouupvoted butvery
largerecommendationsets 


 



conclusion

   
inputdata

wefoundthatitwasverydifficultto
generategoodrecommendationswithonly
averylimitedamountofdataabouteach

fiuserspreferences inthe methodswe
usedwhichclusteredusersbasedon
votinghistory wefoundthatinsome
casesitwassimplyimpossibleto
recommendallarticlesthatauserhadup
votedbecausenootheruserinthesethad
upvotedthatarticle thesparsenessof
thefeaturevectorsaside thesheersizeof
thesetswewouldhaveneededtooperate
on numberofusersandnumberofposts 
wouldnothavebeenpossiblehadwe
wantedtoclusterallredditusers itis
obviousthattouseanyofthese
algorithmsinpracticewouldrequire
significantpruningofthedatasuchas
segmentingusersbasedonsome
attributes subredditsubscription 
geographiclocation etc  andthenrunning
thealgorithmsoneachsegment another
factortotakeintoconsiderationistheage
ofapost tofurthertrimdownthedata 
postsolderthanacertainthresholdcould
beleftout stalepostsarenotvaluable
recommendationsanyway  

   
recommendationsets

anotherdifficultyweencounteredwas
producingreasonablysized
recommendationsets evenifwecan
produceallofthepostsausercouldever
beinterestedin iftheyarehiddenina
giganticsetofrecommendationstheuser
willneverfindthemandwehaventdone
muchtoimprovetheexperience wecould
usesomeheuristicstotrimdownthesize
oftherecommendationsetattheriskof
losingafewgoodrecommendations one
heuristiccouldbe asmentionedinthe
previoussection toomitpostswhichare
morethanafewdays weeksold
altogetherascontentgoesstaleovertime 
anotherapproachcouldbetonottrim
downtherecommendationsetatallbut
ratherpresentthepoststotheuserinan
orderwhichwethinkwouldmakethebest
recommendationsbetheeasiesttofind 
onewaytoachievethiswouldbe for
instance toorderthepostsbypopularity
 mostupvotes  


   
futurework

asidefromtheimprovementstotheinput
dataandthepostprocessingofthe
generatedrecommendationsoutlinedin
theprevioussections moreworkcouldbe
donetoimprovetheclusteringalgorithms
themselves givenourbestperforming
algorithm clusteringpostsbasedon
keywords  oneeasyimprovementwould
betoincludethesubredditandoriginating
domainofthepostinthefeaturevector
alongwiththedictionaryofwords 
anotherpossibleimprovementwouldbe
toassignascoretoeachselectedcluster
forauserbasedontheratioofdown
votedtoupvotedpoststhatclusters
containsandselecttheoneswiththe
highestscoresratherthanselectthemall
togeneraterecommendations 


 

references


   m f porter  analgorithmforsuffix
stripping  originallypublishedin
program   no   pp        july     

   davidd lewis yimingyang tonyg 
rose andfanli   rcv  anew
benchmarkcollection
fortextcategorizationresearch        
journalofmachinelearningresearch 
            

fi