joshbeal gabealvarez
detectionoflandableareasforaerialvehicles
abstract
determiningtheoptimaldropofflocationwithinapropertyisanimportantstepin
developinganautonomousdeliverysystemusinganunmannedaerialvehicle wecanuse
supervisedmachinelearningalgorithmstodevelopanotionofwhatreasonabledropoff
locationslooklike basedonlabeledsatelliteimages wehavereachedastrongpredictive
baselinefordropoffareasusingansvmthatmakespredictionsfromthecolorhistogramand
edgedensityofimagepatches andhavedesignedapipelinethatcantheneliminateproblem
objectsandidentifyasinglelandablepointforthevehicle 
introduction
acurrentlyongoingtaskinroboticsisthequesttocreateanunmannedaerialvehiclethat
canmakedeliveriesautonomously althoughtherearemanyaspectstothiscomplextask one
hurdlethatmustbeovercomeisteachingtheuavwhereonapropertytodeliverapackage
basedontheaddressofthatproperty forexample itwouldbedesirabletodropapackageona
personsdoorsteporintheiryard butnotontheroofoftheirhouseorintoatree 
knowingtheaddressofadropofflocation wecanusegooglemapstoacquirea
satelliteimageoftheproperty butthisdoesnottelluswhatpiecesofthepropertyare
reasonabledropofflocations inthispaper wedevelopasupervisedmachinelearningalgorithm
thatprocessessatelliteimagesofresidencestodeterminewhichareasoftheimagerepresent
reasonabledropofflocations andthenfromtherederiveasinglepixelthatrepresentsan
optimaldropofflocation 
datacollection
inordertoarriveattestandtrainingsatelliteimages ourfirsttaskwastoarriveatalistof
validaddresses weusedaserviceknownasmaponicstopayforalargelistofaddressesin
thepaloaltoarea fromthislist weusedthegooglestaticmapsapitoacquireasatellite
imageforeachaddress andcheckedthesha   hashesoftheimagestoremoveduplicates 
foroursupervisedlearning welabeledourdatainanimageeditorbycopyingeach
imageandeditingthecopysothatalllandablepixelshadthesamecolor onewhichnever
appearsnaturallyinsatelliteimagesofhouses suchas ff ff wethencomputedfeature
vectorsfromtheprocessedimagedata 
features
ourfeaturesetwentthroughalargeamountofincrementaldevelopmentoverthecourse
ofourproject ourfirstattemptatsupervisedlearningusedsinglepixelsastrainingexamples
andranansvmonasubsetofthelabeledpixelstoarriveataresult duetoinaccurateresults
fromthisapproachandexcessiveconvergencetimeforoursvmalgorithm wedecidedto
reworkouroverallstrategyandusesmallsquarepatchesofanimageastrainingexamples
insteadofindividualpixels wewereabletocomputethesenewlabelsfromourprevious
individualpixellabelsbylabelingapatchaslandableifithadanumberoflandablepixelsgreater
thansomethresholdvalue aftersomecrossvalidationtodeterminewhichthresholdwould
allowouralgorithmtobestdistinguishbetweenpatches wedecidedtolabelapatchaslandable
if   ormoreofitspixelswerelandable 
ourfirstfeatureset whichusedpixelcolorexclusively performedsimilarlywellonboth

fiourtestandtrainingsets sowesawthatouralgorithmcouldlikelybeimprovedbytakingsteps
toreducebias wecombatedthisbyaddinginmorefeaturesthattakeintoaccountdifferent
aspectsoftheimage inparticular addingfeaturesthatcapturedthecontextofapixel
contributedtoincreasesinperformance astellingwhetheranareaislandabledependsmoreon
whatisarounditthanitscoloralone indeed twopixelsoftheexactsamecolorcouldbepartof
ahousesroofinonecaseandpartofawalkwayinanother andinformationbeyondsimplythat
pixelaloneisnecessarytodistinguishthetwo 
forourfinalfeatureset weusedmeasuresofboththecolorandtextureofa  x  
squarepatchofpixelstomakepredictions colorfeaturesconsistedoftheaveragered green 
andbluevaluesforthepatch aswellascolorhistogramsforred green andbluewith  
bucketseach thesecolorhistogramsstoredwhatpercentageofthepixelsinthepatchhada
colorvalueinagivenrange forexample howmanypixelsinthepatchhadabluevaluebetween
   and     
wecomputedourtexturefeaturesusingameasureofedgedensityderivedfromthe
cannyedgedetectionalgorithm wefirstranthecannyalgorithmonanimage andthenfor
eachpatchwecomputeditsedgedensityfeaturebycalculatingthepercentageofpixelsinthat
patchwhichwereedges wederivedfurthertexturefeaturesforapatchbycomputingtheedge
densitiesofareassurroundingthepatch ourintuitionherewasthatedgedensitywouldbe
usefulindeterminingapatchsoverallcontextintheimageforexample areasofanimage
correspondingtoatreearelikelytohaveverynoisysurroundings whereasadrivewayorpath
toahouseislikelytobemorequiet andhenceouralgorithmwouldbeabletomoreeasily
distinguishbetweenthetwo 
theexactnumberstouseformanyaspectsofourfeatureswereuncleartousatfirst 
andwearrivedatourfinalvaluesusingcrossvalidation forexample ourpatchsizes number
ofbucketsinourhistograms andnumberoftexturefeatureswereallderivedinthisway 
svmalgorithm
wemakepredictionsoflandablepatchesviaansvmalgorithmusingthelibsvm
package wedevelopedascriptthatconvertsfromanimageformattoalistofpatchesand
featurevectors tobeusedasinputtolibsvm andanotherscriptthatconvertsbackfroman
outputfilegeneratedbylibsvmtoanimage viewingouroutputasanimageishelpfulto
determinewhattypesofmistakesouralgorithmismaking andwhereitcouldbeimproved 
thespecificparametersforouralgorithmhavegonethroughanumberofimprovements
overthecourseofourproject ourinitialattemptatansvmalgorithmconsistedofusinga
gaussiankernelwithdefaultoptionsprovidedbythelibsvminterfacetomatlab thisapproach
hadtwodistinctproblems whichwetookdifferentstepstoremedy first ourinitialalgorithm
wasmakingalmostnopositivepredictions wedeterminedthatthiswasbecauseourclasses
wereskewedtowardnegativeexamples andsowedecidedtorunansvmthatweightedthe
positiveexamplesmoreheavilyinourtrainingset aftersomecrossvalidation wedecidedto
weightourpositiveexamples timesasheavily second whenrunonourfullfeatureset our
algorithmseemedtobeoverfittingourdata whichweconcludedaftertestingonourtrainingset
andobserving     accuracy ascomparedtomuchlower     accuracyonour
crossvalidationtestset tocombatthisoverfitting wechangedourkerneltoalinearkerneland
decreasedourregularizationparameterfrom to      andobservedimprovedpredictive
accuracy 
ourcurrentalgorithmconsistsofrunningacsvmwithalinearkernel regularization
parameterc        andpositiveexamplesweightedx  

fineuralnetworks
basedonvolodymyrmnihsrecentph dthesisonmachinelearningforaerialimage
labeling wesawpotentialforusingneuralnetworkstolearndiscriminativefeaturesinaerial
images whilehisworkhadsuccesswithroadsandbuildings wehopedtoextendittoidentify
landableareas weimplementedafeedforwardneuralnetworkinmatlabusingthefeatures
describedearlier whichwesawpredictedtoofewlandableareas largertrainingsetsmay
enhanceperformance asthecurrentnetworkislikelyoverconservativeduetothesmall
numberoflandableexamplesobserved 

results
witha  dimensionalfeaturevectorconsistingofcolorandtexturefeatures our
algorithmwasabletoattaincrossvalidationtesterrorof     whilesomelandableareaswere
notpredictedaslandable forourapplicationitismostimportanttoavoidfalsepositives asfalse
negativesarelesslikelytobetheideallandinglocation astheconfusionmatrixaboveshows 
     oflandablepredictionswerecorrect moreover manyofthefalsepositivesfitintoobject
classessuchasbuildingroofsthatcanbeeasilydetectedusingtechniquesfromcomputer
vision 


fig  labeledexample

fig  classificationresultofsvm

fipipeline futuredirections
themachinelearningalgorithmthatwehavedevelopedforpredictinglandablepatches
ofanimagefitsintoalargerpipelineofstepstoarriveatasinglelandingsitefromasatellite
image ouralgorithmisabletoarriveatanumberofcandidatepatcheswhichareeitheractual
landableareasorbuildingroofswithhighlikelihood thenextstepinthispipelineistoremove
roofpatchesfromourlistofcandidatepatchesbyemployingacomputervisionbasedroof
detectionalgorithm suchalgorithmshavealreadybeendevelopedapaperdetailingonesuch
algorithmcanbefoundathttp   www cis rit edu  sxs     igarss     pdf 
onceroofpatcheshavebeeneliminated itremainstoarriveatasingleresultpatchfrom
thesetofcandidates wehaveimplementedanalgorithmthattakesmakesthisdecisionby
findingthelargestclustersofcandidatepixelsintheimageandchoosingapixelinonesuch
clustertheintuitionhereisthatthebestlandingsiteislikelypartofalargelandablearea one
couldlikelyachievemoreaccurateresultsusingamorenuancedalgorithmthattakesinto
accounttheconfidenceofthesvmspredictionsoneachpixelaswellasclustersize 
inthefuture wecouldextendthefunctionalityofouralgorithmtodiversedatasets such
asstreetviewimagesorarealtimefeedfromthequadcopter thisdataislikelytointroduce
newdifficultiesregardingtheusefulnessofcolorfeatures ascameratypemayintroducea
differentcolorpalette forthisreason additionaltexturebasedfeaturesarelikelytobeimportant
inobtainingaccuratepredictions 
withtheannouncementofamazonprimeair excitementisgrowingfor
quadcopterpowereddeliveries andourworkcanplayacriticalroleinenablingbetterdropoff
locationpredictionandsaferdeliveries inthefuturewehopetousethissysteminpartnership
withmanna theautonomousquadcopterprojectunderdevelopmentbyjoshbealsteamatthe
stanforduavlab bothmachinelearningandcomputervisionwillplayanimportantroleinthe
futureofourtransportationsystem andextendingthisworktorealtimeproductionsystems
couldleadtogreaterreliabilityandsafety 

fi