jeremychang
identifyingproteinproteininteractionswithstatisticalcouplinganalysis


abstract weusedanalgorithmknownasstatisticalcouplinganalysis sca  tocreateasetoffeatures
forbuildingabiologicallyrelevantandevolutionarilystableproteininteractionnetwork theheartof
thealgorithmistouseproteinsequenceinformationfromdifferentorganismstodeterminewhich
residuesofaproteincoevolve theideaisthatcoevolvingproteinsprobablyalsointeractinawaythatis
importantforanorganism ssurvival wehaveconcatenatedthesequencesofthreeproteins twoof
whichareknowntointeractwitheachother thethirdwasanegativecontrol and treatingthemasa
singleproteinsequence usedscatoseewhichresiduescoevolve wefoundthatthescaanalysison
oursequencedataproducednoisyresultsandwewerenotabletoidentifysignificantinteractions
amongtheproteins weconcludewithsuggestionsonhowtoimprovethismethod 


introduction oneofthecentralchallengesofbiologyiscreatingamapofallbiologicallyrelevant
proteinproteininteractions highthroughputscreensmaybeusefulingivingasetofpossible
interactions butitisunclearwhichinteractionsareactuallyimportantpartsofanorganismssurvival 

onemethod knownasstatisticalcouplinganalysis hasbeenshowntobesuccessfulinsinglingoutthe
mostimportantinteractionswithinaprotein    themethodisbasedonamultiplesequencealignment
oforthologsofagivenproteinacrossmanyspecies thestatisticalcouplingbetweentwositesisgiven
essentiallybyhowmuchtheprobabilityforfindingacertainaminoacidsiteachangesuponfixingthe
aminoacidatsitebtoagivenaminoacid inordertoextendthistechniqueproteomewide wewill
concatenatethesequencesofmanyproteinsandtreatthemasasinglesuperprotein andthenperform
scaonthissuperprotein whatfollowsisabriefintroductiontosca forfurtherexplanation please
consultranganathan       

considerthefrequencydistributionofaminoacidsatagivenposition say positioni inour
superprotein forexample positionicouldbevaline   ofthetimeandcystein   ofthetimeinour
multiplesequencealignment  letssayanothersiteintheprotein sitej alsohasagivendistributionof
aminoacids ifwenowexamineonlythesequencesinwhichtheaminoacidatpositioniiscystein the
distributionatpositionjmayormaynotchange ifitchangesdramatically thiswouldimplythatthe
twositesarestatisticallycoupled ifnot theyarenotcoupled 

wecanquantifytheamountofcouplingwiththefollowingformula 



here ddgstati jisthestatisticalcouplingenergybetweenpositionsiandjinthemultiplesequence
alignment pxi djistheprobabilityofobservingaminoacidxatpositioni givenaperturbationdj i e 
selectingonlythesequenceswhereacertainpositionisfixedtoacertainaminoacid  pxmsa djisthe
probabilityofobservingaminoacidxacrossthetotalmultiplesequencealignment pxiandpxmsaarethe
equivalentprobabilitieswithouttheperturbation kt isanarbitraryenergyvalue whichwehaveused
fornormalization 


fiweappliedscatoanmsaofthreeproteins mapkinase  mapk   mapkinasekinase  map k   
andp  mapkinase p   inordertodeterminewhichresidueswerestatisticallycoupled 


methodsandresults wedownloadedsequencesforourthreeproteinsofinterestfrompsiblastby
searchingforthemouseversions weremovedduplicatehomologsfromagivenspeciessimplyby
randomlyselectingonetokeep andremovingtheremainingsequences wethendidamultiple
sequencealignmentoneachoftheproteinsseparately andthenconcatenatedtheresultingalignments
bymatchingupthesequencesbyspecies thisresultedinanalignmentwith   orthologs from   
species  withatotallengthof    aminoacids 

wethenproceededwiththescabyidentifying  perturbations thecriteriaforselectingperturbations
werethattheremustbeatleast  sequencesthatcontainacertainaminoacidatacertainsiteand 
aftertheperturbation theremustbeatleast  sequencesremaining weperformedscawiththese
perturbations andfinallyproducedthegraphsdisplayingddgforeachpositiongivenaperturbation 

inthemsa mapk islocatedataminoacids       map k islocatedat          andp  is
locatedat          wefoundthattheaverageddgvaluesdidnotchangesignificantlyacrossthese
threeproteins indicatedthatwedidnotidentifyanysignificantinteractions eachplotinfigure shows
theddgvaluesacrossallpositionsforagivenperturbation 

wehadhopedtobeableto   clusterourresultstoidentifyaminoacidsthatcoevolveacrossall
perturbationsand   usesupervisedlearningtechniquestotrainaclassifieronwhatpropertiesthe
matrixofddgvaluesoftwointeractingproteinshas butbecausetheddgvaluesforallproteinshad
similarvalues wedecidednottoproceed 


conclusions webelievethatthemainreasonswewereunabletorecoversignificantinteractionswere
duetotheoriginalqualityofthemultiplesequencealignment toimproveit wewouldneed   alarger
numberofsequencesand   cleanersequences inthesensethatpsiblastreturnssequencesfor
proteinsthatarenotnecessarilyorthologoustothequerysequence andthereforesomeofourmsais
infactcomposedofunrelated junkproteinsthathappentosharesequencehomologywithourquery
sequence 

thealignmentprocessitselfcanalsobeimproved thescaalgorithmassumesthateachpositioninthe
alignmentreferstothesame dpositioninalloftheaminoacids withoutadjustingthealignmentsso
thattheycorrespondtothe mostlikely  dstructure wecantbeconfidentintheresultsfromsca 

finally itmaybeworthtryingtousemutualinformationasourcoevolutionmetric ratherthansca 
bothmethodshavegivensimilarresults anditisunclearwhichonegivesbetterresults 

pleaseemailjeremychang jbchang stanford edu forthemultiplesequencealignmentand or
matlabcodeusedinthisproject 


references
   lockless s w  ranganathan r evolutionarilyconservedpathwaysofenergeticconnectivityin
proteinfamilies science               

fi   socolich m etal evolutionaryinformationforspecifyingaproteinfold nature               
   russ w p etal naturallikefunctioninartificialwwdomains nature                
   zhang x etal anallostericmechanismforactivationofthekinasedomainofepidermalgrowth
factorreceptor cell                   
   benhur a etal supportvectormachinesandkernelsforcomputationalbiology ploscomputbiol
  e              




fifigure  twopages 

 

 

    
aa  

    

perturb  no  

 

 

 

perturb  no  

    
aa  

    

deltadeltag

perturb  no  
deltadeltag

deltadeltag

perturb  no  
 

  
 
 

 

perturb  no  

  

    
aa  

    

perturb  no  

 

 

 
 

 

    

    

 

 

perturb  no  

    

    

    

    

perturb  no  

 

 

 

 
 

    

    

 

 

perturb  no   
  

 

 
 

    

    

    

 

 

perturb  no   

 

 

 

perturb  no  

  

 

 

    

 

    

perturb  no   
 

 

perturb  no   

    

    

 

 

perturb  no   

 

    

    

    

perturb  no   

 

  
 

 

 

    

    

 

 

perturb  no   

 

    

 

    

 

 

    

    

 

 

perturb  no   
 

 

 

 

 

 

    

    

 

    

    

    

perturb  no   

 

    

    

 

 

 

 

perturb  no   

 

perturb  no   



    

perturb  no   

 

 

    

    

 

 

    

    



fi

 
 

 

    
aa  

    

perturb  no   

  
 
 

 

perturb  no   

    
aa  

    

deltadeltag

perturb  no   
deltadeltag

deltadeltag

perturb  no   
 

  
 
 

 

perturb  no   

 

    
aa  

    

perturb  no   

 

  
 

 

 

    

    

 

 

perturb  no   

    

    

 

    

 

    

 

 

perturb  no   

    

    

 

 

perturb  no   

 

    
perturb  no   

 

 

 

perturb  no   

 

 

    

    

    

perturb  no   

 

 

 
 

 

    

    

 

 

perturb  no   
  

 

 
 

    

    

 

    

 

 

perturb  no   

    

    

 

 

perturb  no   

 

 

 

    

 

 

    

    

    

perturb  no   
  

    

    

perturb  no   

 

 

    

 

  

 

 

perturb  no   

 

 

    

    

 

 

    

    

perturb  no   
 
 
 

 

    

    



fi